Add minimal pymc example (#7281)
pymc-devs/pymc: README.rst

    *  Simple extensibility
-  Transparent support for missing value imputation

Linear Regression Example
==========================
.. code-block:: python

   import pymc as pm

   # Taking draws from a normal distribution
   seed = 42
   x_dist = pm.Normal.dist(shape=(100, 3))
   x_data = pm.draw(x_dist, random_seed=seed)

   # Define coordinate values for all dimensions of the data
   coords={
    "trial": range(100),
    "features": ["hardness", "conductivity", "temperature"],
   }

   # Define generative model
   with pm.Model(coords=coords) as generative_model:
      x = pm.Data("x", x_data, dims=["trial", "features"])

      # Model parameters
      betas = pm.Normal("betas", dims="features")
      sigma = pm.HalfNormal("sigma")

      # Linear model
      mu = x @ betas

      # Likelihood

>       y = pm.Normal("y", mu, sigma, dims=["trial"])

Reviewer: @ricardoV94 what might the output be? I think at least having a short story like "imagine we ran an experiment where for different levels of hardness, conducitivty and temperature, we measured Y".

Reviewer 2: Sounds good

Reviewer: No, I'm asking what we're measuring in this hypothetical experiment. Just to round out the example.

Reviewer 2: Pick one from ChatGPT:

1. Material Strength: This could include tensile strength, yield strength, or fatigue strength. These measures could be affected by changes in material hardness and temperature.
2. Electrical Properties: Besides conductivity, which is already a variable, YY might represent electrical resistance or capacitance, which can change with temperature and material properties.
3. Thermal Properties: Such as thermal expansion or specific heat capacity, which could be influenced by the material's hardness and its conductivity.
4. Optical Properties: Such as reflectivity or light absorption, which might change with temperature and the physical state of the material.
5. Chemical Reactivity: Rate of a chemical reaction that could be influenced by the material's properties and temperature.
6. Phase Changes: The point at which a material changes from solid to liquid (melting point) or from liquid to gas (boiling point), which can be influenced by the material's composition and environmental conditions.
7. Durability or Wear Resistance: How well a material can withstand wear or degradation over time, potentially influenced by its hardness and operating temperature.

Reviewer: Here's a different example from GPT that I think works better:

> Objective: Investigate the effects of sunlight exposure, water amount, and soil nitrogen content on plant growth.

Background: Plant growth can be influenced by multiple factors, and understanding these relationships is crucial for optimizing agricultural practices. In this experiment, we aim to predict the growth of a plant based on three different environmental variables.

Experiment Setup:
Variables:
Independent Variables:
Sunlight Hours (X1): Number of hours the plant is exposed to sunlight daily.
Water Amount (X2): Daily water amount given to the plant (in milliliters).
Soil Nitrogen Content (X3): Percentage of nitrogen content in the soil.
Dependent Variable:
Plant Growth (Y): Measured as the increase in plant height (in centimeters) over a certain period.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, just say data is standardized so the normal draws and likelihood make sense

Reviewer: @HarshvirSandhu Can you make these changes to the example?

Author: Yes

=====================  ======  =====  ========  =========  ===========  =========  ==========  ==========  =======
betas[sunlight hours]   4.972  0.054     4.866      5.066        0.001      0.001        3003        1257        1
betas[water amount]    19.963  0.051    19.872     20.062        0.001      0.001        3112        1658        1
betas[soil nitrogen]    1.994  0.055     1.899      2.107        0.001      0.001        3221        1559        1
sigma                   0.511  0.037     0.438      0.575        0.001      0            2945        1522        1
=====================  ======  =====  ========  =========  ===========  =========  ==========  ==========  =======

.. code-block:: python

   # Simulate new data conditioned on inferred parameters
   new_x_data = pm.draw(
    pm.Normal.dist(shape=(3, 3)),
    random_seed=seed,
   )
   new_coords = coords | {"trial": [0, 1, 2]}

   with inference_model:
      pm.set_data({"x": new_x_data}, coords=new_coords)
      idata = pm.sample_posterior_predictive(
         idata,
         predictions=True,
         extend_inferencedata=True,
         random_seed=seed,
      )

>    pm.stats.summary(idata.predictions, kind="stats")

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we show all the summaries outputs? Why only the first?

Reviewer: I think for starters it's TMI and can scare people off. Convergence diagnostics is more advanced than what we want to demo here.

Reviewer: Oh, I thought you meant more columns, but you meant more rows?

Reviewer 2: I mean't every time the have `pm.stats.summary`, we should show the output. I already removed the extra convergence columns with `kind="stats"`. Right now it's only showing for the first usage

In this experiment, we aim to predict the growth of a plant based on three different environmental variables.

.. code-block:: python

   import pymc as pm

   # Taking draws from a normal distribution
   seed = 42
   x_dist = pm.Normal.dist(shape=(100, 3))
   x_data = pm.draw(x_dist, random_seed=seed)

   # Independent Variables:
   # Sunlight Hours (X1): Number of hours the plant is exposed to sunlight daily.
   # Water Amount (X2): Daily water amount given to the plant (in milliliters).
   # Soil Nitrogen Content (X3): Percentage of nitrogen content in the soil.

   # Dependent Variable:
   # Plant Growth (y): Measured as the increase in plant height (in centimeters) over a certain period.

   # Define coordinate values for all dimensions of the data
   coords={
    "trial": range(100),
    "features": ["X1", "X2", "X3"],
   }

   # Define generative model
   with pm.Model(coords=coords) as generative_model:
      x = pm.Data("x", x_data, dims=["trial", "features"])

      # Model parameters
      betas = pm.Normal("betas", dims="features")
      sigma = pm.HalfNormal("sigma")

      # Linear model
      mu = x @ betas

      # Likelihood

>       y = pm.Normal("y", mu, sigma, dims=["trial"])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      plant_growth = pm.Normal("plant growth (z-scored)", mu, sigma, dims="trial")
```

betas[soil nitrogen]    1.994  0.055     1.899      2.107        0.001      0.001        3221        1559        1
sigma                   0.511  0.037     0.438      0.575        0.001      0            2945        1522        1
=====================  ======  =====  ========  =========  ===========  =========  ==========  ==========  =======

.. code-block:: python

   # Simulate new data conditioned on inferred parameters
   new_x_data = pm.draw(
    pm.Normal.dist(shape=(3, 3)),
    random_seed=seed,
   )
   new_coords = coords | {"trial": [0, 1, 2]}

   with inference_model:
      pm.set_data({"x": new_x_data}, coords=new_coords)
      idata = pm.sample_posterior_predictive(
         idata,
         predictions=True,
         extend_inferencedata=True,
         random_seed=seed,
      )

   pm.stats.summary(idata.predictions, kind="stats")

The new data conditioned on inferred parameters would look like:

==========================  ======  =====  ========  =========
Output                       mean    sd     hdi_3%    hdi_97%
==========================  ======  =====  ========  =========

> plant growth (z-scored)[0]  14.21   0.509    13.232     15.144

Reviewer: this is still the old name ("z-scored").

plant growth (z-scored)[1]  24.43   0.518    23.347     25.32
plant growth (z-scored)[2]  -6.743  0.515    -7.778     -5.834
==========================  ======  =====  ========  =========

.. code-block:: python

   # Simulate new data, under a scenario where the first beta is zero
   with pm.do(
    inference_model,
    {inference_model["betas"]: inference_model["betas"] * [0, 1, 1]},
   ) as plant_growth_model:
      new_predictions = pm.sample_posterior_predictive(
         idata,
         predictions=True,
         random_seed=seed,
      )

   pm.stats.summary(new_predictions, kind="stats")

The new data, under the above scenario would look like:

==========================  ======  =====  ========  =========
Output                       mean    sd     hdi_3%    hdi_97%
==========================  ======  =====  ========  =========

> plant growth (z-scored)[0]  14.153  0.509    13.181     15.096

Reviewer: Also needs updated name.

Linear Regression Example
==========================

> **Background**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Plant growth can be influenced by multiple factors, and understanding these relationships is crucial for optimizing agricultural practices.

> In this experiment, we aim to predict the growth of a plant based on three different environmental variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine we conduct an experiment to predict the growth of a plant based on three different environmental variables.
```

   x_dist = pm.Normal.dist(shape=(100, 3))
   x_data = pm.draw(x_dist, random_seed=seed)

   # Independent Variables:

>    # Sunlight Hours (X1): Number of hours the plant is exposed to sunlight daily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # Sunlight Hours: Number of hours the plant is exposed to sunlight daily.
```

   # Water Amount (X2): Daily water amount given to the plant (in milliliters).
   # Soil Nitrogen Content (X3): Percentage of nitrogen content in the soil.

   # Dependent Variable:
   # Plant Growth (y): Measured as the increase in plant height (in centimeters) over a certain period.

   # Define coordinate values for all dimensions of the data
   coords={
    "trial": range(100),

>     "features": ["X1", "X2", "X3"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "features": ["sunlight hours", "water amount", "soil nitrogen"],
```

      mu = x @ betas

      # Likelihood

>       plant_growth = pm.Normal("plant growth (z-scored)", mu, sigma, dims="trial")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Assuming we measure deviation of each plant from baseline
      plant_growth = pm.Normal("plant growth", mu, sigma, dims="trial")
```

   with pm.do(
    inference_model,
    {inference_model["betas"]: inference_model["betas"] * [1, 1, 0]},

>    ) as new_model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ) as plant_growth_model:
```
